# Face Recognition Demo

Demo a real time face recogniton with good accuracy and good speed for realtime. I installed this 3 face detection method mtcnn, ssd, mediapipe with facenet model pretrained on vgg-face2 from facenet-pytorch lib with 2 classify method SVM and vectorsearch with faiss lib for the face embedding classify.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [File Structure](#file-structure)
- [License](#license)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Clone the project

```bash 
git clone https://github.com/thochit/face_recognition.git
```

### Installation

```bash
# Example installation command
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Add new person

Add a new person using webcam to your dataset use to demo 

``` example
python main.py -m add_identity -f FOLDER_PATH -n NAME -i NUMBER_OF_IMAGES_COLLECT
```

To collect the images, press C
### Create database 

Create a svm model or faiss index and save it into file model

``` example
python main.py -m create_database -clf svm -f FOLDER_PATH -svm SVM_PATH_FILE
```

### Demo with webcam

Face recognition demo with webcam

``` example
python main.py -m webcam_demo -clf svm -lc True -f FOLDER_PATH -svm PATH_TO_SVM_FILE -dm DETECT_METHOD
```

Press q to exit 
### Demo with video

Face recognition demo with videos

``` example
python main.py -m video_demo -clf svm -lc True -f FOLDER_PATH -svm PATH_TO_SVM_FILE -v PATH_TO_FOLDER_CONTAIN_TEST_VIDEO -dm DETECT_METHOD
```


## File Structure

Here's an explanation of the file structure:

- **demo.py**: Python script for running a demo.
  
- **detect_face.py**: Module containing functions for face detection using different methods.

- **main.py**: Main script for the project.

- **model/**
  - **names.pkl**: Pickle file storing names associated with face embeddings.
  - **Res10_300x300_SSD_iter_140000.caffemodel**: Pre-trained Caffe model for face detection.
  - **Resnet_SSD_deploy.prototxt**: Prototxt file for the face detection model.
  - **svm_model.joblib**: Joblib file containing the trained SVM model.
  - **vector_search.index**: Faiss index file for face recognition.

- **__pycache__/**: Directory containing Python bytecode files generated by the interpreter.
  - ...

- **README.md**: This file! Provides information about the project and its structure.

- **recognize_face.py**: Module with functions for face recognition.

- **requirements.txt**: Text file specifying project dependencies.

- **utils_pytorch.py**: Module with utility functions related to PyTorch.

Feel free to add or modify sections based on your project's specific needs.
